Docs: Refer to staleness in instant vector documentation (#12998)
prometheus/prometheus: docs/querying/basics.md

form, only a metric name is specified. This results in an instant vector
containing elements for all time series that have this metric name.

> The value returned will be the most recent sample within the the time frame

Reviewer: There's a repeated "the the" here.

But besides that, "within the time frame specified by the API call" is a bit unclear or not quite correct. For example if you have a range query over a 1h time frame, it's not a single most recent value within that time frame that is being selected, but the most recent sample value found within a 5-minute lookback window from each individual resolution step. Or in the case of an instant query, it is the most recent one looking back from the single evaluation timestamp.

How about this instead:

"The value returned will be that of the most recent sample prior to the query's evaluation timestamp (in the case of an [instant query](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/#instant-queries)) or of the current resolution step within the query (in the case of a [range query](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/#range-queries)). The [`@` modifier](#modifier) allows overriding the timestamp relative to which the selection takes place. Time series where the most recent sample is older than the [staleness threshold](#staleness) will not be returned."

form, only a metric name is specified, which results in an instant vector
containing elements for all time series that have this metric name.

> The value returned will be that of the most recent sample prior to the query's

Reviewer 2: It's the sample exactly at the time, or prior, no?

Reviewer 3: Right. It's not "prior". Maybe "at or before" would be the suitable wording?

Author: ```
-The value returned will be that of the most recent sample prior to the query's
-evaluation timestamp (in the case of an
+The value returned will be that of the most recent sample at or before the
+query's evaluation timestamp (in the case of an
 [instant query](api.md#instant-queries))
-or prior to the current step within the query (in the case of a
+or the current step within the query (in the case of a
 [range query](api.md/#range-queries)).
```

form, only a metric name is specified, which results in an instant vector
containing elements for all time series that have this metric name.

The value returned will be that of the most recent sample prior to the query's
evaluation timestamp (in the case of an
[instant query](api.md#instant-queries))

> or of the current resolution step within the query (in the case of a

Reviewer 3: "resolution step" sounds weird to me. Also, the "of" seems off (no pun intended).

Maybe
```suggestion
or prior to the current step within the query (in the case of a
```

[range query](api.md/#range-queries)).
The [`@` modifier](#modifier) allows overriding the timestamp relative to which

> the selection takes place. Time series where the most recent sample is older
> than the [staleness threshold](#staleness) will not be returned.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the selection takes place. Time series are only returned if their most recent sample is less than the [lookback period](#staleness) ago.
```

This correctly defines the behavior in v3 (which is already merged into main, so we should let the documentation refer to it).

All regular expressions in Prometheus use [RE2
syntax](https://github.com/google/re2/wiki/Syntax).

> It is not possible to specify a specific time or age in PromQL when querying instant vectors,

Reviewer: This is not quite true, as the `@` operator (described below) allows setting an absolute evaluation timestamp for an instant vector selector, a range vector selector, or a subquery expression. I would maybe just mention in the initial paragraph (the one with your other edits) that by default, the sample selection happens relative to the query evaluation timestamp?

Author: Ooh, that'd be _great_ to surface more clearly in the docs too.

I'll amend the wording.
